---
title:  "How to contribute to Padawan Wallet"
classes: wide
---

A quick summary of what the [`Padawan Wallet`](https://github.com/thunderbiscuit/padawan-wallet) is, why it exists and how you can contribute to it!

## `Padawan Wallet`

The `Padawan Wallet` project started as a passion project by [@thunderbiscuit](https://github.com/thunderbiscuit) to play around with the newly created `BDK-Kotlin` library.
He envisioned a small android app that users can use to learn about bitcoin wallets.
Users will download the wallet, go through its tutorials and delete the app with full confidence that they can navigate other bitcoin wallets on the market. 

With the power of android, `BDK-Kotlin` and the bitcoin testnet network he created the first version of the `Padawan Wallet` as an open-source project.
After `Summer of Bitcoin` came around thunderbiscuit signed up as a mentor and brought in students to not only learn about bitcoin but to contribute to the project. 

The reason why this blog post exists is also because I worked on the project as part of my `Summer of Bitcoin` internship too. 
I brought the project from using fragments to Jetpack compose alongside the help many designers.

## How to contribute

As of writing this post the current `Padawan Wallet` project is undergoing a major shift to using the `Summer of bitcoin` designers' wireframe.
If you do want to help out or just check out the project codebase feel free to join the [discord server](https://discord.com/invite/hbMszDMP3X) where we all are!
You can drop thunderbiscuit or me and message on any questions you have about the codebase and we will be more than happy to reply.

The project uses Jetpack Compose to create the UI, and you can take a look at the design wireframe on our discord.
There are many open issues on the github, most of which are outdated and will be cleared once the project is moved to the Compose framework.

Of course, you can also use the project as inspiration on how to use the `BDK-Kotlin` library. 
The library is written in Rust, so do take a look if you are interested, it is also an open-source project!

Lastly, I just want to thank thunderbiscuit for teaching me about the bitcoin network and how to navigate the project codebase throughout the 3 months.
