---
title:  "Summer of Bitcoin 2022"
classes: wide
---

This is the last week of the Summer of Bitcoin (SoB) 2022 internship and what a journey it has been.
When I was job hunting after being released from serving National Service in Singapore, I never thought that I would be taking on one that focused on Bitcoin.
Most of my friends and peers had negative impressions of Bitcoin and crypto in general, and I don't blame them, with all the shady business going on.
Personally though, I am neither for nor against Bitcoin.
I feel that in time bitcoin will fill out its niche, regardless whether its taking over the finance industry or not. 

I applied to numerous software engineer intern positions, though I never found SoB through my job hunting.
It was only after one of my friends sent me the link to SoB semi-jokingly and I thought it was pretty interesting. 
A fully remote intern position where I can do basically whatever I want? 
I thought this once a nice opportunity to learn something completely new to me, and to earn a nice chunk of change for myself too, so I signed up and got in almost immediately.

## Padawan Wallet
In the SoB internship you were either a developer or a designer, and every intern will have to pick a project and get the respective mentor to choose them over every other intern vying for that project.
It is a simple system, whoever catches the mentor's eyes the most will get the opportunity to work for them, and it encourages the interns to put in effort.
Since my programming background is mostly focused on Android, with web development being on the weak side and no knowledge on other up and coming languages like Rust, I went about to try and find some Android / Java projects to work on.
Luckily for me there just so happens to be 1 project that fits the bill, `Padawan Wallet`.

Padawan Wallet is an Android app that focuses on bringing bitcoin to the layman. 
Anyone without any bitcoin or bitcoin wallet knowledge can download this app, go through its tutorials and come out confident and ready to use rael Bitcoins.
It is meant to be an easy to download, easy to delete app and I felt that this is the most direct and accessible project that I could do.

So I hopped onto the discord and github and started tackling some of the starter issues that were open.
They were really simple tech debts that I cleared, and I did try to clear as many as I can, partly so others couldn't do them after me.
On hindsight I could have taken a more relaxed approach, seeing that I was one of the few people actually submitting Pull Requests (PR).

To keep things short the project lead, thunderbiscuit, picked me as the project intern for the summer and so my SoB journey began!

## Summer of Bitcoin
SoB holds many seminars, with reading materials for the interns to look through and learn about Bitcoin from.
The seminars were ran in groups and intern led, with different people being picked as the leader each week.
Everyone in the group had a chance to discuss the question they were given for the week, and others can ask clarify their doubts too.
At the end of the session everyone gathered back into the main room and Bitcoin industry experts were there to clear any questions during the seminars.

The materials given was pretty rigorous, and if you did read and look through every resource given thoroughly you would probably come out really, really knowledgable about Bitcoin.
However the depth of Bitcoin is much to expansive for people working on this on the side to really take in the materials in great depth.

I had the chance to clear any doubts the thunderbiscuit too, through discord at anytime which was cool.
I ran through my ideas and thoughts on what some Bitcoin concepts were, and he was there to give examples if I was unsure of anything.

To encourage people to write blogs and put in more work SoB also has some "best intern" awards etc..
You could stand to win a Bitcoin miner and full node if you really wanted too, but I was far too lazy to be writing weekly blogs and stuff, though I did eventually write about using `BDK-Kotlin` library functions.

## BDK Library Suite
The heart of Padawan Wallet and some of the other smaller bitcoin projects is the `BDK-Kotlin` library.
It wraps the Bitcoin Development Kit code which is written in Rust in Kotlin, and exposes classes and functions for you to use in environments that need it.
Without knowledge on Rust of course, I could not just hop in and contribute to the root BDK library, and I had to wait patiently for each release of `BDK-Kotlin` to work on more features. 

The `BDK` team meets every week and discusses about the project, which is why the release of `BDK` is really fast.
After each release I used another project to test out the new features that were included in the release.
The `Devkit Wallet` is much different from the `Padawan Wallet`, it is a barebones app that solely focuses on introducing `BDK-Kotlin` functions for other developers to take reference from and use on their own projects.
