---
title:  "Bumping RBF Enabled Transaction Fees using BDK-Kotlin"
classes: wide
---

A quick guide on how to use the [`BDK-Kotlin 0.8.0`](https://github.com/bitcoindevkit/bdk-kotlin) library to bump Replace-By-Fee(RBF) enabled transaction fees.
You can use the [`Padawan Wallet`](https://github.com/thunderbiscuit/padawan-wallet) and [`dev-kit`](https://github.com/thunderbiscuit/devkit-wallet/tree/simple-wallet) open-source projects as reference. 

## Selecting transaction to bump fee

Do note creating the actual RBF enabled transaction is covered in another blog post.

Before diving into the details on creating the transaction to bump fees with, you will first have to deal with selecting the transcation to bump fees for.
If you do not already have somewhere to display the transaction that are pending and or confirmed, you will have to do it to retrieve the transaction ID which we need to build the transaction.

You retrieve all transactions by calling :
``` kotlin
wallet.getTransactions()
```
where `wallet` is the BDK-Kotlin Wallet object. 

This returns a list of the `Transaction` objects which you can use to retrieve the transaction ids (txids) from. 
There are many technicalities that you might face when handling the object depending on the `BDk-Kotlin` version.

In the case of `0.8.0`, there is an issue with the smart cast for kotlin. 
You can't call `Transaction` object's data classes' directly since you have to explicitly cast them to the data classes. 
Either call `transaction as Transaction.Confirmed` or `transaction as Transaction.Unconfirmed` will do, but do watch out for kotlin calling showing some lint suggestions that the explicit cast is unnecessary.
This is not really an issue however, since you can still run your code with the lint suggestions.

Another way of handling the transaction is filtering the list by type :
``` kotlin
val unconfirmedTransactions = allTransactions.filterIsInstance<Transaction.Unconfirmed>()
val confirmedTransactions = allTransactions.filterIsInstance<Transaction.Confirmed>()
val sortedTransactions = confirmedTransactions.sortedByDescending { it.confirmation.height }
```
This is a simple showcase of how to retrieve unconfirmed and confirmed lists of transactions, together with sorting by how recent the transaction was confirmed.

## BumpFeeBuilder

Now that your user can select a pending or unconfirmed transaction, you can let your users bump the fees for them! 

You will have to use the `BumpFeeTxBuilder(txid: String, newFeeRate: Float)` builder to construct the transaction to bump your fees.
The builder takes in the txid and fee rate as the inputs, and below is an example of using it to build a transaction :
``` kotlin
val psbt: PartiallySignedBitcoinTransaction = BumpFeeTxBuilder(txid = txid, newFeeRate = feeRate)
                                                                .enableRbf()
                                                                .finish(wallet = wallet)
```
This creates a transaction with the given txid and fee rate, together with the `enableRBF()` method to ensure the new transaction is still RBF enabled (or else it will be disabled by default).
Finally `finish()` is called with the wallet to create the `PSBT` object you can broadcast!

## Error Handling

If the transaction is not RBF enabled, the broadcast will throw an error. This is also true if the new fee rate is too high / too low, so throw in some error handling.
