---
title:  "Creating a Testnet wallet using BDK-Kotlin"
---

# {{ page.title | default: site.title }}

A quick guide on how to use the [`BDK-Kotlin 0.7.0`](https://github.com/bitcoindevkit/bdk-kotlin) library to create a Bitcoin testnet wallet for your own testing purposes. You can use the [`Padawan Wallet`](https://github.com/thunderbiscuit/padawan-wallet) and [`dev-kit`](https://github.com/thunderbiscuit/devkit-wallet/tree/simple-wallet) open-source projects as reference. 

### BDK-FFI

> This project builds .jar and .aar packages for the jvm and android platforms that provide Kotlin language bindings for the bdk library. 
> The Kotlin language bindings are created by the bdk-ffi project which is included as a git submodule of this repository.

In short, the `BDK-Kotlin` library uses Kotlin [language bindings](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Language_binding) that are created by the submodule [`BDK-FFI`](https://github.com/bitcoindevkit/bdk-ffi). The `BDK_FFI` library creates the `libbdkffi` multi-language library for the rust based [bdk](https://github.com/bitcoindevkit) library from the Bitcoin Dev Kit project. The `bdk-ffi-bindgen` package builds a tool for generating the actual language binding code used to access the libbdkffi library.

You can follow the steps in the `BDK-Kotlin` repository to create the `.jar` or `.aar` file to use the newest commits in your project.

## Dependency

Use the `implementation("org.bitcoindevkit:bdk-android:0.7.0")` dependency in your gradle project. Follow the [maven central](https://search.maven.org/artifact/org.bitcoindevkit/bdk-android) page to see when a new version is released. 

## Creating a new Wallet

To create a new testnet wallet you can call :

```
import org.bitcoindevkit.*
import org.bitcoindevkit.Wallet as BdkWallet
val keys: ExtendedKeyInfo = generateExtendedKey(Network.TESTNET, WordCount.WORDS12, null)
val descriptor: String = "wpkh(${keys.xprv}/84'/1'/0'/0/*)"
val changeDescriptor: String = "wpkh(${keys.xprv}/84'/1'/0'/1/*)"
val database = DatabaseConfig.Sqlite(SqliteDbConfiguration("$path/bdk-sqlite"))
val wallet = BdkWallet(
    descriptor,
    changeDescriptor,
    Network.TESTNET,
    database,
)
```
There are many things going on inside this code snippet, and we can go through them one by one. 

### Extended Key

```
fun generateExtendedKey(network: Network, wordCount: WordCount, password: String? ): ExtendedKeyInfo
```
To create a brand new wallet we will need to create the [extended keys](https://learnmeabitcoin.com/technical/extended-keys). The method `generateExtendedKeys` takes in 3 parameters, `network: Network`, `wordCount: WordCount`, and a `password: String?`. 

The `network` parameter is an enum with the values : `BITCOIN, TESTNET, SIGNET, REGTEST`. As the name suggests each enum points to a bitcoin network, and we will use `TESTNET` for this. 

Similarly `wordCount` is also an enum with the values : `WORDS12, WORDS15, WORDS18, WORDS21, WORDS24`. The word count selected are the number of words the mnemonic phrase will generate. You can read more about mnemonic phrases introduced in [BIP30](https://medium.com/coinmonks/official-bip39-word-list-mnemonic-24f170ccfe62).

Lastly there is an optional `password` parameter. You can choose to secure the wallet with an additional password if needed, but that differs app to app. It is not compulsory at all however, and since we are creating a testnet account we will not be using it here.

We will get a `ExtendedKeyInfo` data class back, which contains the newly generated `mnemonic` phrase, extended private key `xpriv`, and the `fingerprint`.

### Descriptors

```
val descriptor: String = "wpkh(${keys.xprv}/84'/1'/0'/0/*)"
val changeDescriptor: String = "wpkh(${keys.xprv}/84'/1'/0'/1/*)"
```
Using the extended private key `xpriv` we have from the new `ExtendedKeyInfo` object, we can create the [descriptors](https://bitcoindevkit.org/descriptors/) for our wallet. In short, it defines how the scripts (and subsequently, addresses) of a wallet should be generated. Descriptors make wallets more portable across different tools and apps, alongside many other advanced uses. 

Note that the `descriptor` and the `changeDescriptor` Witness Pay to Key Hash descriptor(`wpkh`) is different, in that the second last parameter is `0` and `1` respectively. 

### Configuring SQLITE Database
