---
title:  "Everything about my Internship at GovTech 2022 Summer"
classes: wide
---

Everything about my 3 month internship at GovTech 2022 May - July.

## Before

I applied to many places hoping that maybe I could score an internship (all the generic good places) with my limited experience in the industry. 
Most of my experience comes from working as a contract SWE at [RFCom Technologies](https://www.rfcom-tech.com/). 
Other than that I worked at [Travel Prologue](https://travelprologue.com/) as an intern.
I could get all these experiences from connections and they were a big hep in filling out my resume trying to find other jobs.

The person that hired me from Travel Prologue tried to contact me to come back and work for them again but I had changed my number during national service and I didn't know.
It was only long after that fact that I heard the news, so oops, my bad.

There were a few technical coding rounds that I tried and GovTech was the only one that responded back. 
Seeing that I was already a month or two into the job hunt I decided it was a decent place to intern at, and continued further down the interview path.
I actually had 1 more coding round from a finance company that I decided not to do, since I had to re-learn C++ to do it.

The interview was really simple except that fact that I forgot everything about databases, which they asked a few questions about. 
With that I got hired as an intern at GovTech for the _Personalise_ team for my summer before university starts.

## Start

Right when my internship started at GovTech some of the Covid restrictions got lifted, so more people could go to the work place.
I got pretty worried since I was juggling some other stuff (SoB) and going to the workplace means adding 2 hours of travel time to my weekdays. 
That would have been disastrous and I probably would have had to drop my other commitments.
Luckily for me GovTech still mostly practices work from home and I got let off the hook. 
Lucky.

A few days before I was supposed to report to work my _"Reporting Officer"_ (RO) gave me the information on everything I had to install and do, which was pretty good.
The RO was one of the SWEs in the team and not the tech lead, so to be honest I was less stressed asking about small stuff. 
I went to take the company's macbook which was also my first time at the Sandcrawler building that DCube was in.
The place is really close to the mrt and the building itself is pretty cool, though not having a staff pass meant that you had to deal with security everytime you were waiting for someone to let you in.

I got introduced to everyone on the team, which included 4 SWEs, 1 data engineer, 1 designer and 1 person that dealt with the clients (I forgot the title).
The project itself is pretty huge actually, tons of submodules in the backend and a react frontend website was what I was introduced to. 
There are actually other components in the project but those were mostly for the AI and its implementation, which I was not really brought in to help with.

Everyone was a full-stack SWE which is a classic. 
I was given some very basic tasks as a start to get myself familiarized with the codebase, one of which was to change the website banner to the current year.
It didn't cross my mind to make the banner the _current year_, since the task told me to change it to _2022_. 
So I went ahead and pushed a very short 2 liner which still somehow had some peer review changes requested on it. 
After some time when the tech lead looked at the task he said just change the banner to the _current year_ and it clicked in my head that I messed up.
I wasn't thinking ahead and pushed stuff out without thinking through them, which I though was really bad, even though the consequences was pretty trivial.

## Middle

After getting used to the coding environment and all the schedules it was honestly pretty smooth sailing from there. The only problem I encountered was trying to find out which API I had to use and how to use it. Since the team is pretty small the amount of tech debt it had existing inside the code base is to be expected. The lack of documentation is also not a surprise so your choices really are to either memorize which piece of code is where, dig around until you find it, or to ask someone who does. 

This is around the time where I took on the task to handle data for the new Key Results (KR) that the team needed. Metrics such as the number of people who used a certain feature etc. needed to be recorded down so that we can keep track of it more closely. There were other issues such as the data collected being filled with actions that the developers had done. In the task I had to track several new metrics and clean up the dirty data, finally uploading all of them onto `AWS CloudWatch` in a way that is easy for non-developers to understand and interpret.

The immediate problem that I faced was that I knew nothing about `AWS CloudWatch`. What type of interface is it? How do you upload data onto it? It was a completely new world for me and I had to pick up the pace and get this task done before the internship ends. To start, `Amazon CloudWatch is a monitoring and observability service built for DevOps engineers, developers, site reliability engineers (SREs), IT managers, and product owners.`. It collects monitoring and operational data in the form of logs, metrics, and event. Hence if you are curious on how many users perform actions x, you can upload 1 count of metric x onto CloudWatch everytime a users performs that action. You can then hop onto CloudWatch and perform data analytics on that metric, such as the total count of that metric. It is pretty straight forward to upload the data onto CloudWatch as it handles most of backend stuff for you. The metrics are automatically shown when it gets uploaded and it automatically disappears when it does not get updated in a certain amount of time.

Now that I know how CloudWatch works I am left with setting up the code to upload the actual data that I need. Luckily for me there were numerous examples on how to do it already inside the codebase. The bulk of the time spent writing the code actually went into tracing the code from the front-end all the way to the back-end. The code spanned about 6 files from when the back-end receives a click on the feature, to sending the metric to CloudWatch. This flow of metrics that I found was for metrics that are being recorded in real-time, i.e. counting the amount of users that have clicked a button. Another form of metric is simply counting a certain data value from the database at a set time period, and then uploading it to CloudWatch after counting them. Since I had to deal with both of these types of data I had to trace both flows of data management in the back-end. With the AWS credentials that I was given I could access the `dev` and `staging` databases so I could compare and verify that the data that I collected was correct.

Finally now that I knew how to actually upload the data I had to clean up the data itself. This included removing all forms of data that was created purely by the developer team and had nothing to do with using the product itself. All I had to do here was to filter out every team that only contained developer members but that was slightly complicated too with some of the API restrictions that I had. The final code that I arrived at was messy, to say the least and the best I could do to clean it up was to split the code into methods since the use of comments was few and far between in the codebase.

After setting everything up I had to come up with the documentation for it, so that non-developers could not only understand, but so that they can also recreate what I had done on CloudWatch. This was not difficult at all, but just really tedious, which is what was to be expected of writing documentation. 

## End

Nearing the end of the internship I had left the CloudWatch task up for peer review and went on to deal with other things. I was brought along to OCBC arena to conduct some User Acceptance Testing (UAT) for the team, and I actually had a fun time at the booth that we set up. Not only did I had an excuse not to do my SWE work but I could also just mess around and talk to people outside of asking them to do the interview and forms. Taking a break from staring at the computer screen all day felt really good and refreshing, something I haven't felt in quite a while since I entered national service. Sometime during the last week and last 2 weeks of the internship the pull request for the CloudWatch task got peer reviewed alongside being pushed to the staging environment. It became quite the rush trying to fix all the problems and refreshing my own mind on what I was supposed to do. 

## End of the internship

The 3 month long internship was really fun on hindsight. Not only did I get to learn all about technologies that I have not interacted with before like AWS Services and react, I had the chance to talk to many new people with many different backgrounds. Though I was never sociable I still had a very fun time talking to all of them. Next after this would be starting university and finishing up Summer of Bitcoin and my other contract.
